.\" Man page for water_bill(1)
.TH WATER_BILL 1 "2026-06-30" "1.1.0" "Water Bill Calculator"
.SH NAME
water_bill \- quarterly water bill calculator for domestic and commercial customers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B water_bill
.RI [ OPTION ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B water_bill
is a command-line tool that computes quarterly water bills for domestic
and commercial customers using a tiered tariff structure.
.PP
When run without options, it presents an interactive menu.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-batch
Non-interactive mode.
Read
.I <type> <consumption>
pairs from standard input, one per line.
Lines beginning with \fB#\fR and blank lines are ignored.
Prints each bill, then a quarterly statistics summary.
Exits with non-zero status if any record is invalid.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-\-help ", " \-h
Print a usage summary and exit.
.SH INPUT FORMAT
In batch mode, each input line contains two space-separated integers:
.PP
.RS 4
.I type consumption
.RE
.PP
where
.I type
is 1 (Domestic) or 2 (Commercial), and
.I consumption
is the water usage in cubic metres (m\[u00B3]), non-negative.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success (all records processed without error).
.TP
.B 1
One or more records were invalid, or no records were read.
.SH EXAMPLES
Interactive mode:
.PP
.RS 4
.B water_bill
.RE
.PP
Batch mode from a file:
.PP
.RS 4
.B water_bill \-\-batch < examples/typical_quarter.txt
.RE
.PP
Piped input:
.PP
.RS 4
.B printf \(aq1 20\\n2 100\\n\(aq | water_bill \-\-batch
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I examples/typical_quarter.txt
Sample batch input with domestic and commercial records.
.TP
.I examples/edge_cases.txt
Edge-case inputs for testing tier boundaries.
.SH SEE ALSO
Project documentation:
.UR https://github.com/frankwyf/water-bill-calculator
.UE
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Frank Wang.
.SH LICENSE
MIT License.  See the LICENSE file in the source distribution.
